First of all, let me invite you to turn to John, chapter 17, and as you turn to John 17, Greg, thank you for the introduction.
A while ago, my name's Steve Parr again, and I was under the service of your interim pastor before Levi came, and in actually the last two years, I've been blessed to come and speak on your parents' night twice in the last couple of years.
Had a great time with that, and now my primary ministry, just so you know, is the Georgia Baptist Mission Board, my title is Chief Strategist, and just to describe my role there,
is with our missionary staff, I am there to coach them and to coordinate their ministries as they serve not just with individuals, but serve literally thousands of congregations, about 3,600, I call it macro leadership.
So I try to coach them up, I start with people skills and with Levi, here's how to pray for me, I'm trying to help Levi with his people skills, so help me, okay?
and trying to help him overcome shyness, you know.
And so I saw him speaking to someone publicly last week, so he's coming a long way.
So you know that, know that.
So anyway, Levi does send his greetings also.
And then also on behalf of Derek Spain, and Derek and I talked yesterday, and of course he expected to be here knowing today, but through the whole interim.
I know you expected him to be here also, and I appreciated Greg commenting and reading his letter, but I spoke with him.
He also wanted to just point out his sadness and not be able to follow through.
but also as part of his family.
And just to be very clear, there's not a moral failure on Derek's part.
There's nothing he's done ethically wrong or anything.
There are just some issues that he really needs to attend to and give his focus to.
And I think any of us could appreciate that with our families coming forth.
So pray for Derek and pray for his family during this time.
But I've come today not knowing I would be here just a few days ago, but I have stood here before.
Actually last week I was in a church doing the same thing where just the last second a church was finding out
that a senior pastor is actually going to be taking a leave of absence because of some things going on in his life.
And then two years ago, it's at my home church, Hebron Baptist Church.
We had an interim pastor who was there six weeks and it was a moral failure situation.
Now to come up right behind that and encourage the congregation.
And I want to do that today from God's Word.
I want you to do something.
I want you to ask God this morning to do something.
I want you to ask God to speak to your heart.
Because I'm speaking to you this morning, not only as a believer, but as a member of this congregation.
Now, if you are a guest, this will apply to you also.
Now, boys and girls, teenagers, I want you to hear, this is not a message for the adults, this is for everybody.
No matter your age, if you're here this morning, as we look into God's Word.
But I will say something to our students, boys and girls, if it seems a little unsettling to you to show up for church one Sunday and the pastor's not gonna be there, he's gone, or the interim pastor's not there, just want you to hear
Adults need to hear this too, but especially our young adults and our teenagers and our children, boys and girls will listen to this.
I want to share with you before I get to the text some things about the church that are true.
Okay?
You ready?
Here we go.
There is no such thing as a perfect church.
There are none.
Okay?
So boys and girls, you need to know that.
Secondly, churches are not places where you never get your feelings hurt.
Did you know that?
There are none.
So I just said to you straight up, if you're young, if you go to church,
you will eventually get your feelings hurt.
But I don't come to church based on my feelings.
I come to church based on my desire to worship God and my desire to grow.
Thirdly, church is not a place where everyone has their act together.
And I like what my friend Jason Britt says about this.
He says, it's okay if you're not okay.
It's just not okay to stay that way.
But here's the reality, we're not okay, we all have our flaws and our struggles.
Fourth thing is this, churches are not problem-free.
There aren't, and I'll tell you, I work in some of the finest churches in Georgia and beyond.
And the worship is great, the preaching is wonderful, the music is awesome, but you get behind the scenes.
There's always challenges being faced by leaders and members of that congregation.
Church is not a place where no mistakes are ever made.
Yes, there are mistakes made at church.
And you may be wondering, do we make a mistake
by calling Derek.
Well, no, there was a design in that and Derek came with full integrity.
The church called him, expecting him to serve during this time.
And again, but things happen sometimes we do not expect in our own lives in our churches, but there was no mistake made in that case.
But the reality is mistakes are made in the church sometime.
It's not a place where mistakes are never made.
Church is not a place where people never disagree.
Or they say, if you got eight Baptists together, you get nine opinions, right?
Okay, so sometimes we do disagree.
There are no churches like that.
And church, listen to this, church is not a place where leaders never struggle or make mistakes.
I'm going to tell you as a leader and working with leaders, yeah, leaders struggle too.
They have lives and they should certainly be above board and be authentic and work through things and should be living a life that's a model.
That doesn't mean they never struggle or make mistakes.
The church is filled with miracles because everybody here is a miracle, but the reality is the church
The congregation is a place where we're seeking together to do God's will, and we should genuinely care about people, and every authentic church seeks to elevate and faithfully teach the Word of God, and then to work together to fulfill His purposes.
So I want to just think about what is it that God wants of this congregation during a time like this?
I don't know where you are on this.
You may think, oh, this is not a big deal.
Maybe that's the case.
Or you may think this is a little unsettling to walk in today and find out our interim pastor is not going to be here.
It's unsettling enough when you have a nine 10 year pastor to leave for a great opportunity by the way.
But a lot of times again, we're not sure how to take that.
Sometimes we can feel rejected.
We can feel hurt by the loss of a pastor.
Well, I want you to think about Jesus and what he would say to this.
And I believe we can find what he would say to this in the scripture.
In John chapter 17, I know you've been reading the Gospel of John studying through it.
In John chapter 13 through 17, it's a long, really passage, four chapters long, talking about what happens the night before Jesus is crucified.
We're about to read, Jesus is in that upper room, having his last supper with his apostles, celebrating the Passover.
John is there.
And on that night, Jesus prays what is the Lord's prayer.
When I said the Lord's prayer, you may be thinking of the prayer, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
That is not the prayer I'm talking about.
That is a model prayer.
That's not really the Lord's prayer.
When you break it down, you'll find the Lord's prayer right here.
And it's what he prayed the night before he was arrested and crucified.
When Jesus prays this prayer, within about 12 to 14 hours, he will not only be arrested, he'll be tried, convicted and crucified.
And they'll go lay him in a tomb.
And so Jesus knows this is about to happen.
And when you know you're coming to the end, your words carry a lot of weight because what you say before your peers, your family, your friends, in this case, before his apostles, and even what he prays carries a lot of weight.
So in John chapter 17 verse 11, if you're here or if you're on another campus, only to stand while we read a couple of verses here.
In John chapter 17 verse 11, in honor of the reading of God's word, and as we think about what God would say to us, and as we ask God to speak to our hearts, here's what he said, and we're gonna study more than verse 11, but kind of set the stage for his prayer.
Jesus said, I am no longer in the world, but they, his apostles, are in the world, and I am coming to you, Holy Father,
protect them that says apostles by your name that you have given me so that we may be one as so that they speak to the apostle they may be one father as we are one Lord as we look into your word speak to our hearts draw us closer and let us know where to go from here as a congregation we ask in Jesus name amen you can be seated you will find in your sermon notes you can
jot down my outline here.
And the first thing I want to turn your attention to would be this thought as we look at the prayer of Jesus.
It would be the desire for unity.
Now I'll talk about the desire for unity as Jesus prays here.
You may have noticed the title of my message is the one thing Jesus prayed for.
Instead of that title, you may immediately step back and say, now hang on a second.
Are you telling me Jesus only prayed for one thing?
Well, honestly, if you study the Scripture, He prayed for a lot of things.
Well, what would I say then the one thing Jesus prayed for?
I think you'll see as we dig deeper into the text.
What happens here in verses 6 through 19, remember they've had the Last Supper.
Jesus is going to be arrested in a matter of a few hours.
And He prays first of all for His disciples, for those men right there with Him.
He prays for the apostles.
But it takes an interesting turn in verse 20, verses 23.
And look at that where he says this.
And as a matter of fact, as we read this text here in verses 20 through 23, you'll see why I call this the one thing that Jesus prayed for.
As a matter of fact, on this campus or any other campus, when I get to the word one, I want you to say it out loud with me.
And I want to see how many times Jesus uses the word one as he prays, not for his apostles, but as he begins to pray literally for Concord Baptist Church.
As he prays for believers in the future.
Here we go.
I pray not only for these but also for those who believe or those who will believe in me through their message.
May they all be one.
You, Father, are in me and I am in you.
May they also be one in us so that the world may believe you sent me.
I have given them the glory you have given me.
I in them, excuse me, may they be
as we are, I am them and you and me.
May they be completely, so the world may know that you have sent me and have loved them as you have loved me.
So five times, he says, Lord, may they be one, may they be one, may they be one.
Do you see a pattern here?
The one thing Jesus prayed for, well, he prayed, not one thing, he prayed that we, 2,000 years later, would continue to be one.
I'm reminded when I read this text of Psalm 133.1, when the Psalmist wrote these words, how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together in unity.
Now if you're a parent, you know exactly what I'm talking about.
You don't have to be a parent.
Maybe you've been a kid before and you can imagine.
Now have three daughters.
Their names are Leah, Lauren and Larissa.
We call them par three, par four and par five.
Just so you know that, okay?
Well, the last name like par you got to play golf.
You know what I'm saying?
So my girls are all grown now.
My youngest just graduated college.
She's working on a master's degree.
The other two are married with their own children.
But I remember when they were little and we would take off for something like Disney World.
We've got this eight hour drive and we're going to Orlando and we cannot wait to get there.
But you know how it goes.
We're not 30 minutes down the road and they're beginning to get impatient.
You know what they begin to say?
First of all, daddy, how much further?
And they're starting to drive you crazy.
How much further?
Every few minutes, how much further?
And you're not far down the road when they do that.
But then because of their immaturity, they begin to get impatient.
Not only with mom and dad, they begin to get impatient with one another.
And it just drives parents crazy when they say those things like, she's looking at me.
You ever hear that?
She's looking at me.
Like that matters, you know?
And then it goes even further.
She touched me.
She's touching me.
She's on my side.
And so they're driving you crazy and make you start saying crazy things like, don't make me come back there.
You know, you're going 75 miles an hour, 80, and you're like, you're going to go back there.
And have you ever tried to spank a kid while you're driving?
You know, and it's hard to do.
So they make you do these crazy things, but you can appreciate how good it is when they just behave.
Now, one of the things that happened with my family was when my oldest daughter was engaged before she got married.
My youngest daughter was in high school.
We decided to take another family vacation.
We took a cruise together.
It's kind of the last vacation we took before any of my daughters were married, just the five of us, the par five we call ourselves.
And now my girls are mature and they're older and they went, and this whole seven days, they just had the best time.
They got along.
And you know what?
It was so pleasing to me, their father for my daughters to get along so well.
That's what this text is about.
And John,
Jesus is talking about, I pray that they would get along.
I pray they would be unified.
I pray that they would be one.
Again, the Psalmist says how good, how pleasant it is when our brothers dwell together in unity.
Now, you got to understand when we read this text, who is it that has this desire for unity?
It's none other than our Lord and our Savior, Jesus Christ.
Now, why is that important?
Well, remember this, when we do get along,
When we are unified, no matter what the circumstances in our church, first and foremost, that pleases God.
And that should always be our aim that we
please God in all that we do.
But not only does it please God, it really engenders momentum because the church cannot accomplish what it needs to accomplish if we're divided in any way.
And folks, this is not just about what's happening today and when Derek's definitely aside and the potential just to say, hey, just calm down.
It's not gonna be a problem.
It's not gonna be good.
But then to think back about this text and just to imagine for a moment as you think about this room before you even walked in here, are you at one with every person in this room?
I'm not saying that you've never disagreed, but is there anybody in this room you wouldn't sit down with today and just share lunch with?
Are there some people you say, I just want to be in the same room with them?
That is not pleasing to God.
We've all got to be one, and though we may disagree sometimes.
Listen, when we are divided, it hinders the work and the momentum that God wants to generate and create.
through our witness in the community.
So not only it pleases God, it engenders momentum.
But remember this also when we come to times like this, the way that it affects our children, because when we are unified, it strengthens the faith of the boys and girls.
Now think about this.
Boys and girls will watch the way we handle this situation.
And if we get a little shaky about it, it makes them shaky.
If we get a little upset, it makes them upset.
So it's important that we model for them how to handle such unexpected circumstances, because to me, this is a blip.
It's a speed bump.
It's not a major barrier.
I've seen churches experience a whole lot more horrendous situations than this.
And yet at the same time, you know, we're, we're human.
We like stability.
We like, I say, I like change as long as I agree with it.
Don't you?
But when change happens and we don't see it coming or something that can go the way we thought it can be unsettling sometimes.
But notice this desire for unity.
But not only that, notice that Jesus gives a description of unity.
Look in verse 23.
When Jesus says, I am in them, God, and you are in me, may they be made, watch this, completely one.
You notice I underlined the word completely or highlighted here.
May they be completely one so that the world may know you have sent me and have loved
them as you have loved me.
So what does it mean to be completely one?
And there's really several pictures as you begin to dissect that thought of being one that I'll try to give you to help you to apply this.
The first thought being that of being completely one means
Unity, but not uniformity in other words it doesn't mean that we're all just alike now I love this time of the year for many reasons one among which is I love football season and if you're a football fan especially a Georgia fan yesterday was a pleasing day was it not okay now Maybe you're not a Georgia fan.
Maybe you're like me.
Maybe you're a Falcons fan today's a discouraging day already just so you know, okay?
But I'm a big Falcons fan that you know the difference between the Falcons and a dollar bill don't you?
dollar bill is good for four whole colders okay so you know okay super ball okay okay anyway I'm hurting okay I'm a falcons fan but anyway you take the Falcons although they're struggling the reality is they're they're working the different schools they went to and different cultural backgrounds and different IQs and different
Tasting music, but they're all pulling together towards a common goal today, which is to outscore the opponent.
Actually gotta buy, they're not gonna lose today.
Amen.
Okay, but anyway, before next week they'll pull together in order to defeat the other team.
Well, as a church, we've got different tasting music, different educational backgrounds, different, maybe even denominational backgrounds, different ways we dress, different skills, different experience, different personalities, but it's amazing how God can use that and still make us one.
And that's what this means to be unified, but it doesn't mean that we're all alike necessarily.
In 1 Corinthians 1-10, it says, I urge you brothers in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all say the same thing, that there be no divisions among you, and that you be united with the same understanding and with the same conviction.
Second, it means to be single as in one and not two.
And the best illustration of that is marriage where a couple, the two become one.
And so they become one flesh.
and they share joy and they share sorrow.
Now, you know what they say about mama?
They say, if mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
You see, because when my wife hurts, I hurt.
When she's upset, I'm upset.
I tried to buy her a mood ring so I could tell better what was going on.
I'd go home and I'd check it, you know, and that way I knew if it's a certain color, everything's calm, you know, like green, I think it's real calm and everything, blue's real calm.
Yellow means she's had a tough day, so I kind of give her space.
You know what I mean when it's yellow and when it turns red, you know what it means?
It puts a knot on my head right there.
Okay.
Red knot right here.
I mean, she's in a bad mood and I have to be careful.
But the reality is no matter what, when she hurts, I hurt.
When she has joy, I have joy.
But they say when mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
The reality is when daddy ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
Because we share together, it says in 1 Corinthians 12 verses 24 to 27, there should be no division in the body.
But the members should have the same concern for each other.
Why?
Because we are the bride of Christ.
We're married to Christ.
So if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it.
If one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.
Now you are the body of Christ and individual members of it.
Thirdly, it means to be whole, not whole.
Just kind of play on words.
It means to be whole.
W-H-O-L-E, not H-O-L-E.
It's the picture of a puzzle, and you can imagine having a 100-piece puzzle, and there's one piece that is missing.
Well, the puzzle's not complete if that one piece is not there.
And it's true with you.
You might not think you mean much to this congregation.
You might think you don't have the skill or the giftedness, or you don't have the time as a member here, or maybe you don't have the education some other people have.
Maybe you don't have the resources.
The reality is we're all part of the body and we all have a function and have a place.
And if any part is missing, we're not whole, we're not unified.
It takes each and every member of the body.
In Philippians two, excuse me, in Romans chapter 12 verses four and five, as we have many parts in one body, all the parts do not have the same function in the same way we who are many are one body in Christ and individually members of one another.
And then finally it means pulling together versus pulling apart.
And it's the picture of a tug of war where we're pulling against one another, but you reverse that where two are pulling together.
It's like two horses or two mules or two oxen pulling a wagon and two can pull more than one.
And the reality is that two, it's not they pull double what one can pull.
The reality is two draft horses can pull three times the weight of one horse, not just two times the weight.
And so the picture here is us pulling together.
Now it's important to understand when we speak of unity in the church, it does not mean that you know everyone.
That's not what unity is about.
That's advantageous and that's great, but a lot of people don't go to a larger church because they don't know everybody.
The Bible doesn't describe unity as knowing everybody.
A lot of times they won't go to a church someone because there's multiple services.
The Bible never talks about it in the context of the number of services.
It does not mean everyone's in the same place.
It does not mean that we never disagree.
I'll go back to my wife and I. Carolyn and I are one, but what surprised you to hear that sometimes we disagree.
We disagree because she's wrong a lot of times.
And the reality is she's not here, so I said that.
Okay.
But the reality is we disagree because we're different, but we're one.
And we always find a way to come together.
You see, here's what binds us.
We have a common purpose at Concord Church.
We share common values.
Common leadership with this staff that God has blessed us with, common facilities that we share, common ministry opportunities, but most of all, we share a common Lord.
So we see in this text, the desire for unity and a description of unity.
And finally and quickly, notice this determination for unity, because you see in verses 25 and 26, Jesus gave his life, not only that we might be saved or being in a right relationship with him,
but that we might be one as a body of believers.
In verse 25 it says, righteous Father, the world has not known you.
However, I have known you and these have known that you sent me.
I made your name known to them and will make it known.
So the love you have loved me with may be in them and I may be in them.
Notice the world, Father, has not known you.
The world does not know you.
Now when Jesus died on the cross,
It was so that you could know the Father.
You've probably heard it said before that we're all God's children.
The Bible doesn't teach that.
The Bible teaches that we're all God's creation.
And in John chapter one, you may recall where Jesus said that it's when we believe that we become the children of God.
It's when we're adopted into his family.
We become a part of his family when we trust what Jesus did on the cross.
what happened in the course of the gospel where Jesus not only lived this virtuous life but when he gave his life as a sacrifice for sin on the cross and as he proved that he was God's son as God brought him forth from the dead.
And we know that that sacrifice that he gave satisfied God's justice and today that we can be one with the Father and become a part of the family of God when we trust what Jesus did on the cross.
And when we trust Jesus and surrender our lives to Him as Lord and Savior, that not only makes us one with the Father, from that point forward it makes us all a family, though we're not related by blood.
We're related by the blood of Christ.
And I want you to hear today as we bring this to a conclusion that God first of all wants unity with you and that can't happen until you've trusted Jesus as Lord and Savior.
And I'm going to invite you to do that today, even where you are to say, Jesus, today, I want to first of all be one with you, so I can be one with my brothers and sisters in Christ.
Now as we think about the days to come, I want to bring this to a conclusion by talking about what needs to happen and what doesn't need to happen.
In Proverbs 6 verse 19, it talks about some things that God doesn't like.
As a matter of fact, it goes a little deeper and says there are some things that God actually hates.
And He begins to list those things.
They don't have time to preach all those, but I'll tell you one of them.
It says in Proverbs 619 that the Lord hates one who sows discord among brothers.
Now listen to me right now out of a thousand plus people for 995 of you, this is a no brainer.
I don't know who those five are, but I need to talk to you for a moment.
There are certain people in a congregation this size that's for some reason feel they have the gift of criticism.
They feel they're obligated to dissect and to question.
And what happens here is, and we certainly should evaluate, we should certainly improve upon.
And there's a spirit in which we look at things and we determine how we can do better with things going forward.
But we've got to be careful that as we critique what is going on, that our criticism is not such that divides us.
But if there's any level of critique, it's critique such to bring us closer together.
And there's a big difference there in the approach that one would take to their leadership.
And it's also important as a staff and as church leaders and as members and even guests who are believers to remember Romans 12, 18, if it is possible, as much as it depends on you, live peaceably with all men.
So I've stood in this place many times.
And even in my home church, man, we walked through a much, much shakier situation than you guys are in.
And I had people come to me and said, many are you worried?
Many are you concerned?
Are you worried about what's going to happen?
And you might ask me today, are you worried about, are you concerned about what would happen since this kind of caught us off guard about what will happen in the coming days at Concord Baptist Church in the absence of a pastor and the absence of that person giving us leadership?
Are you concerned?
And let me just tell you straight up, I'm not concerned in the least because the God who was on the throne yesterday is still the God on the throne today.
And he'll be on the throne tomorrow.
And as Greg said, God wasn't taken off guard by this.
As a matter of fact, could it be that God designed this time to test this congregation to see just how unified we are and how unified we could be?
In other words, this could be a time to make Concord Baptist Church seeking a future pastor stronger than it's ever been.
And I want to tell you what, I have been in some interim situations that were just that, including my last one in my home church.
Our interim season actually in my heart made our church stronger and I believe it can happen here too.
Let me ask you a question.
I want you to answer out loud.
If unity was important to Jesus, so much that he prayed about it the night before he went to the cross, if it was important to Jesus, men and women, boys and girls, should it not be important to us?
Amen?
I believe it should be.
And with that said, we're going to have a time of invitation.
You see, because a church is not an auditorium.
A church is not hallways, rooms, and walls.
Those are things that a church needs.
A church is a group of redeemed believers, as we saw a while ago, pulling together, not pulling apart, pulling together to serve Christ.
Are you on that team?
Here's what we're going to do.
Our pastors are going to stand down here.
And at our other campuses, there'll be pastors standing down there.
And first, we're gonna invite those who are trusting Christ, those who need to surrender your life to Jesus, or you won't have a conversation about that.
We're not gonna force you in anything.
We'd love to just have a conversation with you about that.
I invite you to come to one of these pastors.
Some of you came here today and unrelated to what happened with Derek and the announcement about the day.
You're just struggling, totally unrelated, and you just need prayer.
We would love to pray over you today.
Please come and let us just have prayer with you and encourage you today.
and pastors on this campus and others will be just honored to do that.
There's another thing we'll do.
I want you to do this first of all, if just in context of this message on behalf of this church, could we just stand together as one in Jesus' name saying, Lord, we commit to unity at Concord Baptist Church here on the other campus.
Would you stand right now if you believe that?
If you'll commit to that right now, you'll stand for the unity of Concord Baptist Church.
So our musicians are about to start.
The invitation will begin, and while people are coming for prayer, and while people are coming because they're trusting Christ, I'll invite you if you'd like either to come to the altar or just right where you are, but I want you to pray for your place in bringing this church together in the absence of a lead pastor, even in the absence of a lead interim pastor right now, to always fight, always fight, not fighting one another, but always fighting for the unity and the future.
of Concord Baptist Church.
Let's pray.
Father, thank you for your word and for the reminder.
And for Jesus, you cheering us on 2,000 years ago to be one.
And Lord, that's your prayer.
And now God, let us be obedient to that.
Not ignoring problems, Father, but working together for any situation we face and trusting you to do your work and to have your way in Jesus' name.
Amen.
You come on right now.